Constraints define the space in which the artifact is allowed to be useful.
They include deadlines, audience, scope, budget, permissions, prohibited actions, required claims, and statements the agent must not make.
Write constraints as tests, not vague preferences.
Keep it concise” is ambiguous.
Use one page, no more than five recommendations, and put unresolved questions in a separate section” can be checked.
Separate hard constraints from preferences.
Hard constraints block acceptance: legal language, data boundaries, approved channels, maximum spend, or a required format.
Preferences guide quality but may be traded off when the evidence demands it.
Define action boundaries as well as content boundaries.
The agent may read files and draft an email without permission to send it.
It may prepare a publishing package without permission to make it public.
Reversibility determines how much authority is safe.
Include stop conditions.
Pause when a source is missing, two authoritative records conflict, a cost crosses the limit, a permission is unclear, or the task expands beyond the brief.
A useful stop returns the blocker and the smallest decision needed to continue.
The common failure is leaving constraints in the user's head.
The agent fills the gap with reasonable defaults, but reasonable for the model may be unacceptable for the real audience, policy, or consequence.
First, translate important preferences into checkable limits.
Second, separate hard constraints from negotiable guidance.
Third, define permissions and stop conditions before execution.